<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 7566 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 7566

To publicize U.S. Customs and Border Protection operational statistics 
             and report on foreign terrorist organizations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2024

Mr. Luttrell (for himself, Mr. McCaul, Mr. D'Esposito, Mr. Guest, Mrs. 
Cammack, Mr. Dunn of Florida, Mr. Posey, Mr. Lawler, Mr. Garbarino, Mr. 
 Ezell, Mr. Gimenez, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Webster of Florida, 
and Mr. Williams of New York) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To publicize U.S. Customs and Border Protection operational statistics 
             and report on foreign terrorist organizations.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cartel And Radical Terrorist 
Enforcement Log Act of 2024'' or the ``CARTEL Act of 2024''.

SEC. 2. PUBLICATION BY U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION OF 
              OPERATIONAL STATISTICS.

    Not later than the seventh day of each month beginning with the 
second full month after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall publish on a 
publicly available website of the Department of Homeland Security 
information relating to the total number of alien encounters and 
nationalities, unique alien encounters and nationalities, gang 
affiliated apprehensions and nationalities, drug seizures, alien 
encounters included in the terrorist screening database and 
nationalities, arrests of criminal aliens or individuals wanted by law 
enforcement and nationalities, known got aways, encounters with 
deceased aliens, alien encounters and apprehensions affiliated with 
transnational criminal organizations, and all other related or 
associated statistics recorded by U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
during the immediately preceding month. Each such publication shall 
include the following:
            (1) The total number of individuals included in the 
        terrorist screening database (as such term is defined in 
        section 2101 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
        621)) who have repeatedly attempted to cross unlawfully into 
        the United States.
            (2) The total number of individuals included in the 
        terrorist screening database who have been apprehended, 
        including information relating to whether such individuals were 
        released into the United States or removed.
            (3) The total number of individuals affiliated with 
        transnational criminal organizations who have repeatedly 
        attempted to cross unlawfully into the United States.
            (4) The total number of individuals affiliated with 
        transnational criminal organizations who have been apprehended, 
        including information relating to whether such individuals were 
        released into the United States or removed.

SEC. 3. REPORT TO CONGRESS ON FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS AND 
              TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate an assessment of foreign terrorist 
organizations and transnational criminal organizations attempting to 
move their members or affiliates into the United States through the 
southern, northern, or maritime border.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``foreign terrorist 
organization'' means an organization described in section 219 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
