<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 118th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 336 Introduced in House (IH)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






118th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 336

To immediately resume construction of the border wall system along the 
international border between the United States and Mexico to secure the 
   border, enforce the rule of law, and expend appropriated funds as 
             mandated by Congress, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 12, 2023

Mr. Higgins of Louisiana (for himself, Mrs. Miller-Meeks, Mr. Graves of 
 Louisiana, Mr. Reschenthaler, Mr. Fleischmann, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Posey, 
 Mr. Balderson, Mrs. Miller of Illinois, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. 
  Clyde, Mr. Fry, Mr. Carl, Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Carter of Georgia, Mr. 
Sessions, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mrs. Harshbarger, Mr. Babin, 
Mr. Bost, Mr. Latta, Mr. Grothman, Mr. Hunt, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr. Zinke, 
  Mr. Guest, Mr. Roy, Mr. Bishop of North Carolina, Mrs. Boebert, Mr. 
  Rutherford, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Obernolte, and Mr. Jackson of Texas) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To immediately resume construction of the border wall system along the 
international border between the United States and Mexico to secure the 
   border, enforce the rule of law, and expend appropriated funds as 
             mandated by Congress, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Finish the Wall Act''.

SEC. 2. BORDER WALL SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION.

    (a)(1) Immediately Resume Border Wall System Construction.--Not 
later than 24 hours after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall resume all activities related to 
the construction of the border barrier system (also known as, and 
referred to in this Act as, the ``border wall system'') along the 
international border between the United States and Mexico that were 
underway or being planned for prior to January 20, 2021.
    (2) No Cancellations.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may not 
cancel any contract for activities related to border wall system 
construction referred to in paragraph (1) that was entered into on or 
before January 20, 2021.
    (3) Use of Funds.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall expend 
all funds appropriated or explicitly obligated for border wall system 
construction referred to in paragraph (1) that were appropriated or 
obligated, as the case may be, beginning on October 1, 2016, to carry 
out this Act.
    (4) Implementation Plan for Border Wall System.--Not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees an implementation plan to complete, by not later than 
September 30, 2026, border wall system construction referred to in 
paragraph (1) and funded in accordance with paragraph (3).
    (b) Plan To Complete Tactical Infrastructure and Technology 
Elements of Border Wall System.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees an implementation 
plan, including quarterly benchmarks and cost estimates, for satisfying 
all requirements of border wall system construction referred to in 
subsection (a)(1), including tactical infrastructure, technology, and 
other elements as identified by the Department of Homeland Security 
prior to January 20, 2021, through the expenditure of funds 
appropriated or explicitly obligated, as the case may be, for use 
beginning on October 1, 2016, as well as any future funds appropriated 
by Congress.
    (c) Uphold Negotiated Agreements.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall ensure that all agreements executed in writing between 
the Department of Homeland Security and private citizens, State, local, 
and Tribal governments, and other stakeholders are honored by the 
Department relating to current and future border wall system 
construction as required by such agreements.

SEC. 3. DNA COLLECTION CONSISTENT WITH FEDERAL LAW.

    Not later than 14 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure and certify to the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate 
that U.S. Customs and Border Protection is fully compliant with the DNA 
Fingerprint Act of 2005 at all border facilities that process adults, 
including as part of a family unit, in the custody of U.S. Customs and 
Border Protection at the border.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security 
        and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the Senate.
            (2) Tactical infrastructure.--The term ``tactical 
        infrastructure'' includes boat ramps, access gates, 
        checkpoints, lighting, and roads associated with a border wall 
        system.
            (3) Technology.--The term ``technology'' includes border 
        surveillance and detection technology, including linear ground 
        detection systems, associated with a border wall system.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
