<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3227 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

&lt;DOC&gt;






117th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 3227

   To require U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to facilitate 
 naturalization services for noncitizen veterans who have been removed 
              from the United States or are inadmissible.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2021

  Ms. Duckworth (for herself and Mr. Wyden) introduced the following 
    bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to facilitate 
 naturalization services for noncitizen veterans who have been removed 
              from the United States or are inadmissible.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Citizenship Services 
for Veterans Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Biometric collection.--The term ``biometric 
        collection'' means the biometric collection described in 
        section 103.2(b)(9) of title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, 
        during which the applicant provides information, including by 
        providing fingerprints, photographs, or signatures, to confirm 
        his or her identity and to satisfy any requirement for 
        background and security checks in connection with an 
        application to become a naturalized citizen of the United 
        States.
            (2) Eligible veteran.--The term ``eligible veteran''--
                    (A) means a veteran who is a noncitizen; and
                    (B) includes any veteran who--
                            (i) was removed from the United States; or
                            (ii) is not in the United States and is 
                        inadmissible under section 212(a) of the 
                        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                        1182(a)).
            (3) Naturalization examination.--The term ``naturalization 
        examination'' means the English and civics test that each 
        noncitizen is required to pass (unless exempted) pursuant to 
        section 312(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1423(a)) to become a naturalized citizen of the United States.
            (4) Noncitizen.--The term ``noncitizen'' means an 
        individual who is not a citizen of the United States.
            (5) Oath of allegiance.--The term ``oath of allegiance'' 
        means the affirmation and ceremony necessary to become a 
        naturalized citizen of the United States.
            (6) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 3. NATURALIZATION EXAMINATIONS AND BIOMETRIC COLLECTION FOR 
              ELIGIBLE VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services shall ensure that the naturalization examination for each 
eligible veteran is conducted at--
            (1) a United States port of entry that is accessible to the 
        veteran; or
            (2) a United States embassy or consulate in the country in 
        which the veteran resides.
    (b) Biometric Collection.--The Director of U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services shall ensure that biometric collection is made 
available for each eligible veteran at--
            (1) a United States port of entry that is accessible to the 
        veteran; or
            (2) a United States embassy or consulate in the country in 
        which the veteran resides.
    (c) Oath of Allegiance.--The Director of U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services shall ensure that the oath of allegiance for each 
eligible veteran is conducted at--
            (1) a United States port of entry that is accessible to the 
        veteran; or
            (2) a United States embassy or consulate in the country in 
        which the veteran resides.

SEC. 4. JOINT GUIDANCE FROM THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND THE 
              SECRETARY OF STATE.

    The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State shall 
jointly issue guidance regarding--
            (1) the methods used by the Department of Homeland Security 
        to conduct biometric collections, naturalization examinations, 
        and oath ceremonies for eligible veterans at a United States 
        port of entry, embassy, or consulate;
            (2) the methods used by the Department of State to 
        facilitate available space for the activities described in 
        paragraph (1); and
            (3) quality assurance mechanisms to ensure eligible 
        veterans are able to complete the naturalization process at a 
        port of entry, embassy, or consulate.

SEC. 5. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the 
Secretary of State shall jointly submit a report to Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
Representatives that contains an analysis of--
            (1) the implementation of this Act; and
            (2) the effectiveness of the guidance issued pursuant to 
        section 4.
    (b) Updated Guidance.--Not later than the last day of the 90-day 
period beginning on the date on which the report is submitted pursuant 
to subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary 
of State shall jointly update the guidance required under section 4 to 
the extent any shortcomings are identified in the report.

SEC. 6. RULEMAKING.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promulgate regulations to 
implement this Act.

SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE; APPLICABILITY.

    (a) Effective Date.--This Act shall take effect on the date that is 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Applicability.--The requirements under this Act shall apply to 
all naturalization examinations involving eligible veterans with a 
pending naturalization application as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act or who submit a naturalization application after such date of 
enactment, regardless of the date on which the veterans were discharged 
from the military or exited the United States.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
