<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 876 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 876

 To amend the National Environmental Education Act to redesignate that 
Act as the ``John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act'', to establish 
    the John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowship Program and the Theodore 
   Roosevelt Environmental Stewardship Grant Program, to extend the 
            programs under that Act, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 14, 2001

Mr. Inhofe (for himself, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Smith of New Hampshire, Mr. 
    Reid, Mr. Warner, Mr. Lieberman, and Mr. Chafee) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                      Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the National Environmental Education Act to redesignate that 
Act as the ``John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act'', to establish 
    the John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowship Program and the Theodore 
   Roosevelt Environmental Stewardship Grant Program, to extend the 
            programs under that Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    (a) This Act.--This Act may be cited as the ``John H. Chafee 
Environmental Education Act of 2001''.
    (b) National Environmental Education Act.--Section 1(a) of the 
National Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5501 note) is amended 
by striking ``National Environmental Education Act'' and inserting 
``John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act''.

SEC. 2. OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION.

    Section 4 of the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 5503) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``objective and 
                scientifically sound'' after ``support'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (6);
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (13) as 
                paragraphs (6) through (12), respectively; and
                    (D) in paragraph (12) (as so redesignated), by 
                inserting before the period at the end the following: 
                ``through the headquarters and the regional offices of 
                the Agency''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Staff.--The Office of Environmental Education shall--
            ``(1) include a headquarters staff of not more than 10 
        full-time equivalent employees; and
            ``(2) be supported by 1 full-time equivalent employee in 
        each regional office of the Agency.
    ``(d) Activities.--The Administrator may carry out the activities 
described in subsection (b) directly or through awards of grants, 
cooperative agreements, or contracts.''.

SEC. 3. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION GRANTS.

    Section 6 of the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 5505) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence of subsection (i), by striking 
        ``25 percent'' and inserting ``15 percent''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Lobbying Activities.--A grant under this section may not be 
used to support a lobbying activity (as described in the documents 
issued by the Office of Management and Budget and designated as OMB 
Circulars No. A-21 and No. A-122).
    ``(k) Guidance Review.--Before the Administrator issues any 
guidance to grant applicants, the guidance shall be reviewed and 
approved by the Science Advisory Board of the Agency established by 
section 8 of the Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration 
Authorization Act of 1978 (42 U.S.C. 4365).''.

SEC. 4. JOHN H. CHAFEE MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 7 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5506) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 7. JOHN H. CHAFEE MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established the John H. Chafee 
Memorial Fellowship Program for the award and administration of 5 
annual 1-year higher education fellowships in environmental sciences 
and public policy, to be known as `John H. Chafee Fellowships'.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the John H. Chafee Memorial 
Fellowship Program is to stimulate innovative graduate level study and 
the development of expertise in complex, relevant, and important 
environmental issues and effective approaches to addressing those 
issues through organized programs of guided independent study and 
environmental research.
    ``(c) Award.--Each John H. Chafee Fellowship shall--
            ``(1) be made available to individual candidates through a 
        sponsoring institution and in accordance with an annual 
        competitive selection process established under subsection 
        (f)(3); and
            ``(2) be in the amount of $25,000.
    ``(d) Focus.--Each John H. Chafee Fellowship shall focus on an 
environmental, natural resource, or public health protection issue that 
a sponsoring institution determines to be appropriate.
    ``(e) Sponsoring Institutions.--The John H. Chafee Fellowships may 
be applied for through any sponsoring institution.
    ``(f) Panel.--
            ``(1) In general.--The National Environmental Education 
        Advisory Council established by section 9(a) shall administer 
        the John H. Chafee Fellowship Panel.
            ``(2) Membership.--The Panel shall consist of 5 members, 
        appointed by a majority vote of members of the National 
        Environmental Education Advisory Council, of whom--
                    ``(A) 2 members shall be professional educators in 
                higher education;
                    ``(B) 2 members shall be environmental scientists; 
                and
                    ``(C) 1 member shall be a public environmental 
                policy analyst.
            ``(3) Duties.--The Panel shall--
                    ``(A) establish criteria for a competitive 
                selection process for recipients of John H. Chafee 
                Fellowships;
                    ``(B) receive applications for John H. Chafee 
                Fellowships; and
                    ``(C) annually review applications and select 
                recipients of John H. Chafee Fellowships.
    ``(g) Distribution of Funds.--The amount of each John H. Chafee 
Fellowship shall be provided directly to each recipient selected by the 
Panel upon receipt of a certification from the recipient that the 
recipient will adhere to a specific and detailed plan of study and 
research.
    ``(h) Funding.--From amounts made available under section 
13(b)(1)(C) for each fiscal year, the Office of Environmental Education 
shall make available--
            ``(1) $125,000 for John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowships; and
            ``(2) $12,500 to pay administrative expenses incurred in 
        carrying out the John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowship Program.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 3 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5502) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (12), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (13), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) `Panel' means the John H. Chafee Fellowship Panel 
        established under section 7(f);
            ``(15) `sponsoring institution' means an institution of 
        higher education;''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. prec. 5501) 
is amended by striking the item relating to section 7 and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 7. John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowship Program.''.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AWARDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5507) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 8. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AWARDS.

    ``(a) President's Environmental Youth Awards.--The Administrator 
may establish a program for the granting and administration of awards, 
to be known as `President's Environmental Youth Awards', to young 
people in grades kindergarten through 12 to recognize outstanding 
projects to promote local environmental awareness.
    ``(b) Teachers' Awards.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Chairman of the Council on 
        Environmental Quality, on behalf of the President, may 
        establish a program for the granting and administration of 
        awards to recognize--
                    ``(A) teachers in elementary schools and secondary 
                schools who demonstrate excellence in advancing 
                objective and scientifically sound environmental 
                education through innovative approaches; and
                    ``(B) the local educational agencies of the 
                recognized teachers.
            ``(2) Eligibility.--One teacher, and the local education 
        agency employing the teacher, from each State, the District of 
        Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, shall be 
        eligible to be selected for an award under this subsection.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 3 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5502) (as amended by section 4(b)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(16) `elementary school' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
        of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8801);
            ``(17) `secondary school' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 14101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 8801);''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. prec. 5501) 
is amended by striking the item relating to section 8 and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 8. National environmental education awards.''.

SEC. 6. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION ADVISORY COUNCIL AND TASK FORCE.

    Section 9 of the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 5508) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``(2) The'' and all that follows 
                through the end of the second sentence and inserting 
                the following:
            ``(2) Membership.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Council shall 
                consist of not more than 11 members appointed by the 
                Administrator after consultation with the Secretary.
                    ``(B) Representatives of sectors.--To the maximum 
                extent practicable, the Administrator shall appoint to 
                the Advisory Council at least 2 members to represent 
                each of--
                            ``(i) elementary schools and secondary 
                        schools;
                            ``(ii) colleges and universities;
                            ``(iii) not-for-profit organizations 
                        involved in environmental education;
                            ``(iv) State departments of education and 
                        natural resources; and
                            ``(v) business and industry.'';
                    (B) in the third sentence, by striking ``A 
                representative'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Representative of the secretary.--A 
                representative''; and
                    (C) in the last sentence, by striking ``The 
                conflict'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(D) Conflicts of interest.--The conflict'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Membership.--Membership on the Task Force shall be 
        open to representatives of any Federal agency actively engaged 
        in environmental education.''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``(d)(1)'' and all that 
        follows through ``(2) The'' and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Meetings and Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Advisory Council shall--
                    ``(A) hold biennial meetings on timely issues 
                regarding environmental education; and
                    ``(B) issue a report describing the proceedings of 
                each meeting and recommendations resulting from the 
                meeting.
            ``(2) Review and comment on draft reports.--The''.

SEC. 7. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING FOUNDATION.

    (a) Change in Name.--
            (1) In general.--Section 10 of the John H. Chafee 
        Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5509) is amended--
                    (A) by striking the section heading and inserting 
                the following:

``SEC. 10. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING FOUNDATION.'';

                and
                    (B) in the first sentence of subsection (a)(1)(A), 
                by striking ``National Environmental Education and 
                Training Foundation'' and inserting ``National 
                Environmental Learning Foundation''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) The table of contents in section 1(b) of the 
                John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
                prec. 5501) is amended by striking the item relating to 
                section 10 and inserting the following:

``Sec. 10. National Environmental Learning Foundation.''.
                    (B) Section 3 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
                Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5502) (as amended by section 
                4(b)) is amended--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (12) and 
                        inserting the following:
            ``(12) `Foundation' means the National Environmental 
        Learning Foundation established by section 10;''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (13), by striking 
                        ``National Environmental Education and Training 
                        Foundation'' and inserting ``Foundation''.
    (b) Number of Directors.--Section 10(b)(1)(A) of the John H. Chafee 
Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5509(b)(1)(A)) is amended in the 
first sentence by striking ``13'' and inserting ``19''.
    (c) Acknowledgment of Donors.--Section 10(d) of the John H. Chafee 
Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5509(d)) is amended by striking 
paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Acknowledgment of donors.--The Foundation may 
        acknowledge receipt of donations by means of a listing of the 
        names of donors in materials distributed by the Foundation, 
        except that any such acknowledgment--
                    ``(A) shall not appear in educational material 
                presented to students; and
                    ``(B) shall not identify a donor by means of a 
                logo, letterhead, or other corporate commercial symbol, 
                slogan, or product.''.
    (d) Administrative Services and Support.--Section 10(e) of the John 
H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5509(e)) is amended in 
the first sentence by striking ``for a period of up to 4 years from the 
date of enactment of this Act,''.

SEC. 8. THEODORE ROOSEVELT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 11 (20 U.S.C. 5510) as section 
        13; and
            (2) by inserting after section 10 the following:

``SEC. 11. THEODORE ROOSEVELT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GRANT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established a grant program to 
        be known as the `Theodore Roosevelt Environmental Stewardship 
        Grant Program' (referred to in this section as the `Program') 
        for the award and administration of grants to consortia of 
        institutions of higher education to pay the Federal share of 
        the cost of carrying out collaborative student, campus, and 
        community-based environmental stewardship activities.
            ``(2) Federal share.--The Federal share shall be 75 
        percent.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Program is to build awareness 
of, encourage commitment to, and promote participation in environmental 
stewardship--
            ``(1) among students at institutions of higher education; 
        and
            ``(2) in the relationship between--
                    ``(A) such students and campuses; and
                    ``(B) the communities in which the students and 
                campuses are located.
    ``(c) Award.--Grants under the Program shall be made available to 
consortia of institutions of higher education in accordance with an 
annual competitive selection process established under subsection 
(d)(2)(A).
    ``(d) Administration.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Office of Environmental Education 
        established under section 4 shall administer the Program.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Office of Environmental Education 
        shall--
                    ``(A) establish criteria for a competitive 
                selection process for recipients of grants under the 
                Program;
                    ``(B) receive applications for grants under the 
                Program; and
                    ``(C) annually review applications and select 
                recipients of grants under the Program.
            ``(3) Criteria.--In establishing criteria for a competitive 
        selection process for recipients of grants under the Program, 
        the Office of Environmental Education shall include, at a 
        minimum, as criteria, the extent to which a grant will--
                    ``(A) directly facilitate environmental stewardship 
                activities, including environmental protection, 
                preservation, or improvement activities; and
                    ``(B) stimulate the availability of other funds for 
                those activities.
    ``(e) Conditions on Use of Funds.--With respect to the funds made 
available to carry out this section under section 13(a)(1)--
            ``(1) not fewer than 6 grants each year shall be awarded 
        using those funds; and
            ``(2) no grant made using those funds shall be in an amount 
        that exceeds $500,000.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 3 of the John H. Chafee Environmental 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 5502) (as amended by section 5(b)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
            ``(18) `consortium of institutions of higher education' 
        means a cooperative arrangement among 2 or more institutions of 
        higher education; and
            ``(19) `institution of higher education' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).''.

SEC. 9. INFORMATION STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--The John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act is 
amended by inserting after section 11 (as added by section 8(a)(2)) the 
following:

``SEC. 12. INFORMATION STANDARDS.

    ``In disseminating information under this Act, the Office of 
Environmental Education shall comply with the guidelines issued by the 
Administrator under section 515 of the Treasury and General Government 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (44 U.S.C. 3516 note; 114 Stat. 2763A-153).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 U.S.C. prec. 5501) 
is amended by striking the item relating to section 11 and inserting 
the following:

``Sec. 11. Theodore Roosevelt Environmental Stewardship Grant Program.
``Sec. 12. Information standards.
``Sec. 13. Authorization of appropriations.''.

SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 13 of the John H. Chafee Environmental Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 5510) (as redesignated by section 8(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
            (2) by striking the section heading and subsections (a) and 
        (b) and inserting the following:

``SEC. 13. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Environmental Protection Agency to carry out this Act $13,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2002 through 2007, of which--
            ``(1) $3,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be used to 
        carry out section 11; and
            ``(2) $10,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be allocated 
        in accordance with subsection (b).
    ``(b) Limitations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the amounts 
        made available under subsection (a)(2) for each fiscal year--
                    ``(A) not more than 25 percent may be used for the 
                activities of the Office of Environmental Education 
                established under section 4;
                    ``(B) not more than 25 percent may be used for the 
                operation of the environmental education and training 
                program under section 5;
                    ``(C) not less than 40 percent shall be used for 
                environmental education grants under section 6 and for 
                the John H. Chafee Memorial Fellowship Program under 
                section 7; and
                    ``(D) 10 percent shall be used for the activities 
                of the Foundation under section 10.
            ``(2) Administrative expenses.--Of the amounts made 
        available under paragraph (1)(A) for each fiscal year, not more 
        than 10 percent may be used for administrative expenses of the 
        Office of Environmental Education.
    ``(c) Expense Report.--As soon as practicable after the end of each 
fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report 
describing in detail the activities for which funds appropriated for 
the fiscal year were expended.''; and
            (3) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) by striking ``National Environmental Education 
                and Training Foundation'' and inserting ``Foundation''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 10(d) 
                of this Act'' and inserting ``section 10(e)''.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
