<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. Res. 63 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 63

  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Environment and Public 
                                 Works.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 24, 2003

 Mr. Inhofe submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
             the Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Environment and Public 
                                 Works.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Environment and Public Works is authorized from March 
1, 2003, through September 30, 2003; October 1, 2003, through September 
30, 2004; and October 1, 2004, through February 28, 2005 in its 
discretion (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
Senate, (2) to employ personnel, and (3) with the prior consent of the 
Government department or agency concerned and the Committee on Rules 
and Administration, to use on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis 
the services of personnel of any such department or agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 
2003, through September 30, 2003, under this resolution shall not 
exceed $2,516,590, of which amount (1) not to exceed $4,667 may be 
expended for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, 
or organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(I) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946), and (2) not to exceed $1,167 
may be expended for the training of the professional staff of such 
committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    (b) For the period October 1, 2003, through September 30, 2004, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$4,427,783 of which amount (1) not to exceed $8,000 may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(I) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946), and (2) not to exceed $2,000 
may be expended for the training of the professional staff of such 
committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    (c) For the period October 1, 2004, through February 28, 2005, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$1,886,876 of which amount (1) not to exceed $3,333 may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(I) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946), and (2) not to exceed $833 may 
be expended for the training of the professional staff of such 
committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    Sec. 3. The committee shall report its findings, together with such 
recommendations for legislation as it deems advisable, to the Senate at 
the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 28, 2005.
    Sec. 4. Expenses of the committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the chairman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at an 
annual rate, or (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided by 
the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
Senate, or (3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased through 
the Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate, or (4) for payments 
to the Postmaster, United States Senate, or (5) for the payment of 
metered charges on copying equipment provided by the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, or (6) for the 
payment of Senate Recording and Photographic Services, or (7) for 
payment of franked and mass mail costs by the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper, United States Senate.
    Sec. 5. There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committee from March 1, 2003, through September 30, 2003; October 1, 
2003 through September 30, 2004; and October 1, 2004, through February 
28, 2005, to be paid from the Appropriations account for ``Expenses of 
Inquiries and Investigations.''
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
