<html><body><pre>
[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2006 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2006

To provide for recovery efforts relating to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
                    for Corps of Engineers projects.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 14, 2005

  Mr. Inhofe (for himself and Mr. Jeffords) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Environment 
                            and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for recovery efforts relating to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
                    for Corps of Engineers projects.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT-TERM ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers (referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary''), 
shall conduct, at full Federal expense, a comprehensive assessment of 
Corps infrastructure in the State of Louisiana affected by Hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita to determine whether opportunities exist for project 
modifications or project integration that may--
            (1) reduce future hurricane impacts; or
            (2) further other project purposes.
    (b) Content.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall include, at 
a minimum--
            (1) a description of means of providing an increased level 
        of hurricane protection using a combination of structural and 
        nonstructural features;
            (2) a review of the use of a combination of structural 
        means (such as levees and floodgates) and nonstructural means 
        (such as wetlands and beaches) in providing hurricane 
        protection;
            (3) a prioritization of actions that should be taken to 
        improve the level of hurricane protection provided; and
            (4) such other information as the Secretary determines to 
        be appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than January 15, 2006, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a report describing the results of the assessment.
    (d) Funding.--Of the amounts made available by the Energy and Water 
Development Appropriations Act, 2006, for investigations by the Corps 
of Engineers, the Secretary may use not more than $1,000,000 to carry 
out this section.

SEC. 2. COMPREHENSIVE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Using the results of the assessment reported under 
section 1(c), the Secretary shall, in consultation with the State of 
Louisiana, conduct a comprehensive, integrated water resources analysis 
to design and develop a full range of flood control, navigation, 
ecosystem restoration, and hurricane protection measures for southern 
Louisiana.
    (b) Initial Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
submission of the report under section 1(c), the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives an initial report detailing an integrated approach to 
category 5 flood control, navigation, and ecosystem restoration for the 
Gulf Coast region of the State of Louisiana that includes--
            (1) a description of an overall approach for future 
        spending in that region;
            (2) an identification of specific changes to ongoing 
        projects, as well as proposals for future projects, in that 
        region; and
            (3) a consideration of potential future projects, including 
        projects involving--
                    (A) the replacement of barrier islands;
                    (B) coastal restoration;
                    (C) the closing of the Mississippi River Gulf 
                Outlet;
                    (D) the filling in of canals; and
                    (E) the relocation of pumping stations to areas 
                that are less threatened by rising water.
    (c) Final Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
submission of the report under section 1(c), the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a final technical report for an integrated approach to 
category 5 flood control, navigation, and ecosystem restoration for the 
Gulf Coast region of the State of Louisiana.
    (d) Funding.--Of the amounts made available by the Energy and Water 
Development Appropriations Act, 2006, for investigations by the Corps 
of Engineers, the Secretary shall use not more than $8,000,000 to carry 
out this section.
                                 &lt;all&gt;
</pre></body></html>
